hi everyone thanks for visiting with
Chetco digital in this video we're gonna
show you how to install your V -
software application and connect it to
your sensor interface unit we're also
going to troubleshoot some of the most
common connection problems you can find
us online at digital Marine gauges comm
where we have a link to our support page
and our question and answer form as well
as additional downloads and all of our
products and our blog and much more so
right now I'm showing the contents of
the V - install CD it's probably going
to ask you to auto run the install when
you insert the CD and that's fine but
right now I just want to show you that
the USB drivers are located on your CD
and you can also download these on our
website on our support page we have
found that more often than not the USB
drivers are needed in order to get your
Windows PC to recognize your sensor
interface unit so if you open and and
don't run the install right away and
just show the contents of the CD you can
right click copy these USB drivers and
put them in your My Documents folder or
you can download them online so now you
can either run the setup.exe or you can
eject and reinsert to auto run the V -
install this is a Windows 7 thing as
asking if V - can make changes to my
computer you can hit yes you probably
won't get that in XP
it's going to boot up the V - install
and start running through it this is a
standard PC installation so I'm gonna go
through kind of quick you can hit yes to
the agreement this correlates to the
screen size you can change this later on
so it's not a big issue but if you have
a g24 or you're running Nemo 2000 you
can set those options here I'm going to
just hit the g12c and this one is very
important it's asking you where to put
the V - project folder we do not want to
put it in the recommended destination
folder so I'm going to hit browse go to
our C directory - users you may have
more than one user on your computer my
primary user is n right one I only have
one so you're going to go to your
primary user directory and that users
Documents folder and then you're going
to hit OK
should it create the file for you yes
director is created that's great what do
you want icon on your desktop sure so
this is going to run through the V -
install now it's saying that it
completed setup that's great we can hit
finish and V - is installed so now that
we have V - installed on our system
we're gonna make sure that our PC
properly recognizes the remote sensor
interfacing it as a USB comport device
now is the time to make sure that your
unit is powered and connected to your PC
with the supplied USB cable and then
we're going to select the Start menu
right click on computer and select
properties on the top left we're going
to now select Device Manager and we're
gonna look at these parent items when
your PC properly recognizes your remote
box it's going to list it under ports as
a USB comport as you can see and this
how it happens very often it's
recognizing it as an other device with a
yellow exclamation point so we need to
it now install the USB drivers so we
don't have any connection problems going
forward we're going to right click on
the USB serial port and select update
driver software and we're gonna select
browse my computer for driver software
and browse again and now we're going to
navigate to our my Doc's folder where we
initially copied the USB Drive or
directory
however I don't see it listed here and I
did this on purpose because depending on
when you got your V - installation CD or
if you downloaded the USB drivers off
our website they're gonna come in a zip
zipped compress directory so I'm gonna
hit cancel and navigate to My Documents
and I'm gonna right-click and hit
extract all it's gonna ask me where to
extract it
and right now it's extracting the USB
drivers directory so as you can see
there is now a new folder that is
extracted it's not compressed anymore so
we can go back to our update driver
window hit browse again navigate back to
my Docs and now we have this USB drivers
directory all you need to do is select
the main directory just the top folder
of the USB drivers select it and hit OK
so it knows to search within that folder
and we're gonna hit next it's going to
locate and install the software and I'm
just gonna say that Windows is
successfully updated driver software
that's great so we're gonna close its
going to refresh the device manager and
as you can see your sensor interface
unit is now listed as a USB serial
comport under comm 3 now that we know
our PC properly recognizes our sensor
interface unit we can double click on
the video icon to run the software the
top left-hand corner you'll notice the
status bar currently disconnected so we
are not receiving any data right now and
that's fine and the in the top of V -
towards the right you're gonna see 8
menu items the bottom right-hand menu
item is the Preferences panel we're
gonna click to select preferences you
will see across the top there 8
different preferences tabs right now
we're gonna select connect and on the
left you'll see the USB port connection
settings in which we are going to take
the USB port enable and select discover
USB devices to make sure that one device
is listed here and and this is showing
that vtf recognizes one sensor interface
unit connected to your PC so that's good
we're gonna hit the Save icon and hit ok
to save out of the Preferences menu
we're back in the main V - screen now
the top right-hand button of the V -
menu is the connect tab this is a toggle
tab we're going to click once to toggle
the connection tab and as you can see we
are showing digital gauges and the
status bar you can see that it says
connected and there will be a run time
so you have now properly connected V -
to your remote since your interface unit
if you have any additional questions
please visit us online at digital Marine
gauges comm and on our website you'll
find our support forum our complete
shopping cart our C blog contact
information and much more thank you for
watching and thanks for choosing Chetco
digital